





INTERNET-DRAFT                                      Kurt D. Zeilenga
Intended Category: Standard Track                   OpenLDAP Foundation
Expires: 1 October 2001                             1 April 2001
Updates: RFC 2251



                    LDAPv3: All Operational Attributes
                <draft-zeilenga-ldapv3bis-opattrs-06.txt>


1.  Status of this Memo

  This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
  provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

  This document is intended to be, after appropriate review and
  revision, submitted to the RFC Editor as a Standard Track document.
  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.  Technical discussion of this
  document will take place on the IETF LDAP Extensions Working Group
  mailing list <ietf-ldapext@netscape.com>.  Please send editorial
  comments directly to the author <Kurt@OpenLDAP.org>.

  Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
  Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other
  groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.
  Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
  and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
  time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
  material or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

  The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
  http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt The list of Internet-Draft
  Shadow Directories can be accessed at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

  Copyright 2001, The Internet Society.  All Rights Reserved.

  Please see the Copyright section near the end of this document for
  more information.


2.  Overview

  X.500 [X.500] provides a mechanism for clients to request all
  operational attributes be returned with entries provided in response
  to a search operation.   This mechanism is often used by clients to
  discover which operational attributes are present in an entry.  LDAP
  [RFC2251] does not provide a similar mechanism to clients.



Zeilenga                    LDAP All Op Attrs                   [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT     draft-zeilenga-ldapv3bis-opattrs-06      1 April 2001


  This document defines a simple mechanism which clients may use to
  request the return of all operation attributes.  The mechanism is
  designed for use with existing general purpose LDAP clients (including
  web browsers which support LDAP URLs).  This document updates the
  LDAPv3 technical specification as detailed below.

  The key words ``MUST'', ``MUST NOT'', ``REQUIRED'', ``SHALL'', ``SHALL
  NOT'', ``SHOULD'', ``SHOULD NOT'', ``RECOMMENDED'',  and ``MAY'' in
  this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119
  [RFC2119].


3.  Changes to LDAP version 3

  This document updates RFC 2251 as follows:

  In Section 3.2.1, Attributes of Entries, the paragraph:
      Some attributes, termed operational attributes, are used by
      servers for administering the directory system itself.  They are
      not returned in search results unless explicitly requested by
      name.  Attributes which are not operational, such as "mail", will
      have their schema and syntax constraints enforced by servers, but
      servers will generally not make use of their values.

  is replaced with:
      Some attributes, termed operational attributes, are used by
      servers for administering the directory system itself.  They are
      not returned in search results unless explicitly requested.
      Attributes which are not operational, such as "mail", will have
      their schema and syntax constraints enforced by servers, but
      servers will generally not make use of their values.

  In Section 4.5.1, Search Request, the paragraph:
      - attributes: A list of the attributes to be returned from each
      entry which matches the search filter. There are two special
      values which may be used: an empty list with no attributes, and
      the attribute description string "*".  Both of these signify that
      all user attributes are to be returned.  (The "*" allows the
      client to request all user attributes in addition to specific
      operational attributes).

  is replaced with:
      - attributes: A list of the attributes to be returned from each
      entry which matches the search filter. There are three special
      values which may be used.  An empty list with no attributes
      signifies that all user attributes are to be returned.  An
      attribute list containing the attribute description string "*"
      signifies that all user attributes are to be returned.   An



Zeilenga                    LDAP All Op Attrs                   [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT     draft-zeilenga-ldapv3bis-opattrs-06      1 April 2001


      attribute list containing the attribute description string "+"
      signifies that all operational attributes are to be returned.
      (The "*" allows the client to request all user attributes in
      addition to any requested operational attributes.  The "+" allows
      the client to request all operational attributes in addition to
      requested user attributes.  A client may list both "*" and "+" to
      request all attributes.)

  and the paragraph:
      Client implementors should note that even if all user attributes
      are requested, some attributes of the entry may not be included in
      search results due to access control or other restrictions.
      Furthermore, servers will not return operational attributes, such
      as objectClasses or attributeTypes, unless they are listed by
      name, since there may be extremely large number of values for
      certain operational attributes. (A list of operational attributes
      for use in LDAP is given in [5].)

  is replaced with:
      Client implementors should note that results may not include all
      requested attributes due to access controls or other restrictions.
      Furthermore, servers will not return operational attributes, such
      as objectClasses or attributeTypes, unless they are requested (by
      name or by "+"), since there may be extremely large number of
      values for certain operational attributes. (A list of operational
      attributes for use in LDAP is given in [5].)  Clients should also
      note that certain operational attributes may be returned only if
      requested by name.


5.  Interoperability Considerations

  This mechanism is specifically designed to allow users to request all
  operational attributes using existing LDAP clients.  In particular,
  the mechanism is designed to be compatible with existing general
  purpose LDAP clients includes web browsers which support LDAP URLs
  [RFC 2255].

  The addition of this mechanism to LDAPv3 is believed not to cause any
  significant interoperability issues (this has been confirmed through
  testing).   Servers which have yet to implement this specification
  should ignore the "+" as an unrecognized attribute description per
  [RFC 2251, Section 4.5.1].  From the client's perspective, a server
  which does not return all operational attributes when "+" is requested
  should be viewed as having other restrictions.

  It is also noted that this mechanism is believed to require no
  modification of existing LDAP SDKs.



Zeilenga                    LDAP All Op Attrs                   [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT     draft-zeilenga-ldapv3bis-opattrs-06      1 April 2001


6.  Security Considerations

  This document provides a mechanism which clients may use to discover
  operational attributes.  Those relying on security by obscurity should
  implement appropriate access controls to restricts access to
  operational attributes per local policy.


7.  Bibliography

  [RFC2219] S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
            Requirement Levels", RFC 2119, March 1997.

  [RFC2251] M. Wahl, T. Howes, S. Kille, "Lightweight Directory Access
            Protocol (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997.

  [RFC2255] T. Howes and M. Smith, "The LDAP URL Format", RFC 2255,
            December 1997.

  [X.500]   ITU-T Rec. X.500, "The Directory: Overview of Concepts,
            Models and Service",  1993.


8.  Acknowledgment

  The "+" mechanism is believed to have been first suggested by Bruce
  Greenblatt in a November 1998 post to the IETF LDAPext Working Group
  mailing list.


9.  Author's Address

  Kurt D. Zeilenga
  OpenLDAP Foundation
  <Kurt@OpenLDAP.org>


10. Full Copyright

  Copyright 2001, The Internet Society.  All Rights Reserved.

  This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
  others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
  or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
  distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
  provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
  included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
  document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing



Zeilenga                    LDAP All Op Attrs                   [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT     draft-zeilenga-ldapv3bis-opattrs-06      1 April 2001


  the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
  Internet organizations, except as needed for the  purpose of
  developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
  copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed,
  or as required to translate it into languages other than English.

  The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
  revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

  This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
  "AS IS" basis and THE AUTHORS, THE INTERNET SOCIETY, AND THE INTERNET
  ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
  INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
  INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.




































Zeilenga                    LDAP All Op Attrs                   [Page 5]

