





INTERNET-DRAFT                                                   S. Legg
draft-legg-ldap-binary-04.txt                                    eB2Bcom
Intended Category: Standards Track                       30 January 2006


             Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP):
                       The Binary Encoding Option

               Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2006).

   Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as
   Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress".

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

   Technical discussion of this document should take place on the IETF
   LDAP Revision Working Group (LDAPbis) mailing list
   <ietf-ldapbis@openldap.org>.  Please send editorial comments directly
   to the editor <steven.legg@eb2bcom.com>.

   This Internet-Draft expires on 30 July 2006.

Abstract

   Each attribute stored in a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
   (LDAP) directory has a defined syntax (i.e., data type).  A syntax
   definition specifies how attribute values conforming to the syntax
   are normally represented when transferred in LDAP operations.  This
   representation is referred to as the LDAP-specific encoding to
   distinguish it from other methods of encoding attribute values.  This



Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


   document defines an attribute option, the binary option, which can be
   used to specify that the associated attribute values are instead
   encoded according to the Basic Encoding Rules (BER) used by X.500
   directories.















































Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2.  Conventions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   3.  The binary Option. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   4.  Syntaxes Requiring Binary Transfer . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   5.  Attributes Returned in a Search. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   6.  All User Attributes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   7.  Conflicting Requests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   8.  Security Considerations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   9.  IANA Considerations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   10. References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
       10.1.  Normative References. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
       10.2.  Informative References. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   Full Copyright Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8

1.  Introduction

   Each attribute stored in a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
   (LDAP) directory [ROADMAP] has a defined syntax (i.e., data type)
   which constrains the structure and format of its values.

   The description of each syntax [SYNTAX] specifies how attribute or
   assertion values [MODELS] conforming to the syntax are normally
   represented when transferred in LDAP operations [PROT].  This
   representation is referred to as the LDAP-specific encoding to
   distinguish it from other methods of encoding attribute values.

   This document defines an attribute option, the binary option, which
   can be used in an attribute description [MODELS] in an LDAP operation
   to specify that the associated attribute values or assertion values
   are, or are requested to be, encoded according to the Basic Encoding
   Rules (BER) [BER] as used by X.500 [X.500] directories, instead of
   the usual LDAP-specific encoding.

   The binary option was originally defined in RFC 2251 [RFC2251].  The
   LDAP technical specification [ROADMAP] has obsoleted the previously
   defined LDAP technical specification [RFC3377], which included RFC
   2251.  The binary option was not included in the revised LDAP
   technical specification for a variety of reasons including
   implementation inconsistencies.  No attempt is made here to resolve
   the known inconsistencies.

   This document reintroduces the binary option for use with certain
   attribute syntaxes, such as certificate syntax [PKI], which
   specifically require it.  No attempt has been made to address use of
   the binary option with attributes of syntaxes which do not require



Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


   its use.  Unless addressed in a future specification, this use is to
   be avoided.


2.  Conventions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and  "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14, RFC 2119
   [BCP14].

3.  The binary Option

   The binary option is indicated with the attribute option string
   "binary" in an attribute description.  Note that, like all attribute
   options, the string representing the binary option is case
   insensitive.

   Where the binary option is present in an attribute description the
   associated attribute values or assertion values MUST be BER encoded
   (otherwise the values are encoded according to the LDAP-specific
   encoding [SYNTAX] for the attribute's syntax).  Note that it is
   possible for a syntax to be defined such that its LDAP-specific
   encoding is exactly the same as its BER encoding.

   In terms of the protocol [PROT], the binary option specifies that the
   contents octets of the associated AttributeValue or AssertionValue
   OCTET STRING are a complete BER encoding of the relevant value.

   The binary option is not a tagging option [MODELS] so the presence of
   the binary option does not specify an attribute subtype.  An
   attribute description containing the binary option references exactly
   the same attribute as the attribute description without the binary
   option.  The supertype/subtype relationships of attributes with
   tagging options are not altered in any way by the presence or absence
   of the binary option.

   An attribute description SHALL be treated as unrecognized if it
   contains the binary option and the syntax of the attribute does not
   have an associated ASN.1 type [SYNTAX], or the BER encoding of values
   of that type is not supported.

   The presence or absence of the binary option only affects the
   transfer of attribute and assertion values in protocol; servers store
   any particular attribute value in a format of their choosing.

4.  Syntaxes Requiring Binary Transfer




Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


   The attribute values of certain attribute syntaxes are defined
   without an LDAP-specific encoding and are required to be transferred
   in the BER encoded form.  For the purposes of this document, these
   syntaxes are said to have a binary transfer requirement.  The
   Certificate, Certificate List, Certificate Pair and Supported
   Algorithm syntaxes [PKI] are examples of syntaxes with a binary
   transfer requirement.  These syntaxes also have an additional
   requirement that the exact BER encoding must be preserved.  Note that
   this is a property of the syntaxes themselves, and not a property of
   the binary option.  In the absence of this requirement, LDAP clients
   would need to re-encode values using the Distinguished Encoding Rules
   (DER).

5.  Attributes Returned in a Search

   An LDAP search request [PROT] contains a list of the attributes (the
   requested attributes list) to be returned from each entry matching
   the search filter.  An attribute description in the requested
   attributes list also implicitly requests all subtypes of the
   attribute type in the attribute description, whether through
   attribute subtyping or attribute tagging option subtyping [MODELS].

   The requested attributes list MAY contain attribute descriptions with
   the binary option, but MUST NOT contain two attribute descriptions
   with the same attribute type and the same tagging options (even if
   only one of them has the binary option).  The binary option in an
   attribute description in the requested attributes list implicitly
   applies to all the subtypes of the attribute type in the attribute
   description (however, see Section 7).

   Attributes of a syntax with the binary transfer requirement, if
   returned, SHALL be returned in the binary form, i.e., with the binary
   option in the attribute description and the associated attribute
   values BER encoded, regardless of whether the binary option was
   present in the request (for the attribute or for one of its
   supertypes).

   Attributes of a syntax without the binary transfer requirement, if
   returned, SHOULD be returned in the form explicitly requested.  That
   is, if the attribute description in the requested attributes list
   contains the binary option then the corresponding attribute in the
   result SHOULD be in the binary form.  If the attribute description in
   the request does not contain the binary option then the corresponding
   attribute in the result SHOULD NOT be in the binary form.  A server
   MAY omit an attribute from the result if it does not support the
   requested encoding.

   Regardless of the encoding chosen, a particular attribute value is



Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


   returned at most once.

6.  All User Attributes

   If the list of attributes in a search request is empty, or contains
   the special attribute description string "*", then all user
   attributes are requested to be returned.

   Attributes of a syntax with the binary transfer requirement, if
   returned, SHALL be returned in the binary form.

   Attributes of a syntax without the binary transfer requirement and
   having a defined LDAP-specific encoding SHOULD NOT be returned in the
   binary form.

   Attributes of a syntax without the binary transfer requirement and
   without a defined LDAP-specific encoding may be returned in the
   binary form or omitted from the result.

7.  Conflicting Requests

   A particular attribute could be explicitly requested by an attribute
   description and/or implicitly requested by the attribute descriptions
   of one or more of its supertypes, or by the special attribute
   description string "*".  If the binary option is not present in all
   these attribute descriptions, nor absent in all these attribute
   descriptions, then the effect of the request with respect to binary
   transfer is implementation defined.

8.  Security Considerations

   When interpreting security-sensitive fields, and in particular fields
   used to grant or deny access, implementations MUST ensure that any
   matching rule comparisons are done on the underlying abstract value,
   regardless of the particular encoding used.

9.  IANA Considerations

   The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) is requested to update
   the LDAP attribute description option registry [BCP64] as indicated
   by the following template:

      Subject:
        Request for LDAP Attribute Description Option Registration
      Option Name: binary
      Family of Options: NO
      Person & email address to contact for further information:
        Steven Legg <steven.legg@eb2bcom.com>



Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


      Specification: RFC XXXX
      Author/Change Controller: IESG
      Comments: The existing registration for "binary"
                should be updated to refer to RFC XXXX.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

   [BCP14]    Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [BCP64]    Zeilenga, K., "Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
              Considerations for the Lightweight Directory Access
              Protocol (LDAP)", BCP 64, RFC 3383, September 2002.

   [ROADMAP]  Zeilenga, K., "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
              (LDAP): Technical Specification Road Map",
              draft-ietf-ldapbis-roadmap-xx.txt, a work in progress,
              February 2005.

   [MODELS]   Zeilenga, K., "LDAP: Directory Information Models",
              draft-ietf-ldapbis-models-xx.txt, a work in progress,
              February 2005.

   [PROT]     Sermersheim, J., "LDAP: The Protocol",
              draft-ietf-ldapbis-protocol-xx.txt, a work in progress,
              October 2005.

   [SYNTAX]   Legg, S., "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP):
              Syntaxes and Matching Rules",
              draft-ietf-ldapbis-syntaxes-xx.txt, a work in progress,
              June 2005.

   [PKI]      Zeilenga, Kurt D., "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
              (LDAP) schema definitions for X.509 Certificates",
              draft-zeilenga-ldap-x509-xx.txt, a work in progress, July
              2005.

   [BER]      ITU-T Recommendation X.690 (07/02) | ISO/IEC 8825-1,
              Information Technology - ASN.1 encoding rules:
              Specification of Basic Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical
              Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished Encoding Rules
              (DER).

10.2.  Informative References

   [RFC2251]  Wahl, M., Howes, T. and S. Kille, "Lightweight Directory



Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


              Access Protocol (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997.

   [RFC3377]  Hodges, J. and R. Morgan, "Lightweight Directory Access
              Protocol (v3): Technical Specification", RFC 3377,
              September 2002.

   [X.500]    ITU-T Recommendation X.500 (02/01) | ISO/IEC 9594-1:2001,
              Information technology - Open Systems Interconnection -
              The Directory: Overview of concepts, models and services

Author's Address

   Dr. Steven Legg
   eB2Bcom
   Suite 3, Woodhouse Corporate Centre
   935 Station Street
   Box Hill North, Victoria 3129
   AUSTRALIA

   Phone: +61 3 9896 7830
     Fax: +61 3 9896 7801
   EMail: steven.legg@eb2bcom.com

Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2006).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
   ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
   INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be



Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT      LDAP: The Binary Encoding Option    January 30, 2006


   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.





































Legg                      Expires 30 July 2006                  [Page 9]

